README.md, before:

# Asset-Tag-Database-2.0

This project is a rebuild of my original asset tracking system, designed to reinforce my understanding of full-stack development and improve SQL compatibility with Microsoft SQL Server. I'm currently using **Supabase** for backend development and **React (with Vite)** for the frontend.

The goal is to create a professional, MVP-ready web application that is ready to be adapted or refactored into an enterprise's current tech stack. Most importantly it should allow users to:

- View individual IT assets
- Add, remove, and update assets manually via a frontend form
- Search and filter assets by column (e.g., model, department, status)
- Generate and download reports
- Import assets via CSV
- Authenticate users and restrict access

---

## 🧱 Project Structure
```
Asset_Tag_Database_2.0/ 
├── backend/ 
└── sql/ 
│ ├── 01_schema.sql         # Table structure: assets
│ ├── 02_policies.sql       # Row-level security & access
│ ├── 03_seed.sql           # Example data for seeding
│ ├── 04_queries.sql        # Useful queries to interact with data
│ └── 05_utilities.sql      # Verification, row counts, and maintenance scripts
├── asset-tag-frontend/ 
│ ├── public/ 
│ ├── src/ 
│ │ ├── App.jsx             # Main React component
│ │ ├── components/ 
│ │ │ ├── AssetForm.jsx 
│ │ │ ├── AssetTable.jsx 
│ │ │ └── (filter components coming soon) 
│ │ ├── hooks/ 
│ │ │ └── useAssets.js │ │ ├── utils/ 
│ │ │ └── validation.js 
│ │ ├── supabaseClient.js 
│ ├── .env 
│ ├── package.json 
│ └── vite.config.js

```
---

## ✅ Current Progress

### 🔧 Backend (Supabase)
- `assets` table created with full schema
- Row-level security enabled
- Public read access temporarily allowed
- Seed data inserted for testing
- Utility scripts for row counts and resets

### 💻 Frontend (React + Vite)
- Supabase client configured
- Asset data fetched and displayed in a table
- Form built to add new assets
- Validation and error handling implemented
- App renders successfully in browser
- Preparing to implement column-based filtering

### ✅ FiltersBar Component
- Introduced a centralized `FiltersBar` component to manage all column filters.
- Uses a reusable `ColumnFilter` component for both dropdown and text input filters.
- Filters are driven by a config array for scalability and maintainability.

### ✅ ColumnFilter Abstraction
- Created a reusable `ColumnFilter` component that supports both dropdown and text input types.
- Simplifies the UI and keeps the code DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself).

### ✅ CSVUploader Component
- Added a new `CSVUploader` component to support uploading `.csv` files.
- Built a custom CSV parser using the FileReader API (no third-party libraries).
- Parses thousands of rows and maps them to asset objects.
- Validates headers and displays the number of parsed rows.

---

## 🚀 How to Run the App

1. Clone the repo and open in VS Code
2. Navigate to the frontend folder:
   ```bash
   cd asset-tag-frontend

3. Install dependencies:
   npm install

4. Start the development server:
   npm run dev

5. Open your browser to http://localhost:5173

```
Next Steps
✅ Connect frontend to Supabase
✅ Display asset data in a table
✅ Complete form to add new assets
✅ Add form validation and error handling
✅ Implement column-based filtering (starting with status)
   🔲 - Styling the filters bar to match your table layout? (Next iteration)
   🔲 - Adding a loading spinner or "No results found" message? (Next iteration)
   🔲 - Creating a “Clear All Filters” button? (Next iteration)
🔲 Add CSV import support
🔲 Add edit/update and delete functionality
🔲 Add authentication and secure access
🔲 Deploy MVP and test full workflow
📝 Notes
This project is being developed as a learning tool to understand full-stack development, database design, and frontend/backend integration.
Supabase is used to simplify backend setup while maintaining SQL control.
React is used to build a responsive, modern frontend with real-time data interaction.
CSV headers must match the table columns exactly for import.
The frontend is built using React with Vite for fast development and hot module reloading.
```
---

Commit message:

docs: update README with CSV uploader details

README.md, after:

# Asset-Tag-Database-2.0

This project is a rebuild of my original asset tracking system, designed to reinforce my understanding of full-stack development and improve SQL compatibility with Microsoft SQL Server. I'm currently using **Supabase** (PostgreSQL) for backend development and **React (with Vite)** for the frontend.

The goal is to create a professional, MVP-ready web application that is ready to be adapted or refactored into an enterprise's current tech stack. Most importantly it should allow users to:

- View individual IT assets
- Add, remove, and update assets manually via a frontend form
- Search and filter assets by column (e.g., model, department, status)
- Generate and download reports
- Import assets via CSV (with Upsert logic)
- Authenticate users and restrict access

---

## 🧱 Project Structure
```
Asset_Tag_Database_2.0/ 
├── backend/ 
└── sql/ 
│ ├── 01_schema.sql         # Table structure: assets
│ ├── 02_policies.sql       # Row-level security & access
│ ├── 03_seed.sql           # Example data for seeding
│ ├── 04_queries.sql        # Useful queries to interact with data
│ └── 05_utilities.sql      # Verification, row counts, and maintenance scripts
├── asset-tag-frontend/ 
│ ├── public/ 
│ ├── src/ 
│ │ ├── App.jsx             # Main React component
│ │ ├── components/ 
│ │ │ ├── AssetForm.jsx 
│ │ │ ├── AssetTable.jsx
│ │ │ ├── CSVUploader/ # CSV Import component & styles  
│ │ │ └── (filter components coming soon) 
│ │ ├── hooks/ 
│ │ │ └── useAssets.js │ │ ├── utils/ 
│ │ │ └── validation.js 
│ │ ├── supabaseClient.js 
│ ├── .env 
│ ├── package.json 
│ └── vite.config.js

```
---

## ✅ Current Progress

### 🔧 Backend (Supabase)
- `assets` table created with full schema (UUIDs and Unique constraints).
- Row-level security enabled
- Public read access temporarily allowed
- Seed data inserted for testing
- Utility scripts for row counts and resets
- **Upsert Logic:** Backend prepared to handle "Update or Insert" operations based on unique asset tags.

### 💻 Frontend (React + Vite)
- Supabase client configured
- Asset data fetched and displayed in a table
- Form built to add new assets
- Validation and error handling implemented
- App renders successfully in browser
- **Data Management:** Custom `useAssets` hook manages fetching and bulk data operations.
- **FiltersBar:** Centralized filtering system using reusable `ColumnFilter` components for scalability.
- **CSV Import:** - Custom parser built using the browser's **File API**.
  - **Mapping Layer:** Automatically translates inconsistent CSV headers (like 'sn' or 'dept') into database-compliant fields.
  - **Review State:** Implemented a two-stage "Upload -> Confirm" workflow to prevent accidental database writes.

### ✅ FiltersBar Component
- Introduced a centralized `FiltersBar` component to manage all column filters.
- Uses a reusable `ColumnFilter` component for both dropdown and text input filters.
- Filters are driven by a config array for scalability and maintainability.

### ✅ ColumnFilter Abstraction
- Created a reusable `ColumnFilter` component that supports both dropdown and text input types.
- Simplifies the UI and keeps the code DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself).

### ✅ CSVUploader Component
- Added a new `CSVUploader` component to support uploading `.csv` files.
- Built a custom CSV parser using the FileReader API (no third-party libraries).
- Parses thousands of rows and maps them to asset objects.
- Validates headers and displays the number of parsed rows.

---

## 🚀 How to Run the App

1. Clone the repo and open in VS Code
2. Navigate to the frontend folder:
   ```bash
   cd asset-tag-frontend

3. Install dependencies:
   npm install

4. Start the development server:
   npm run dev

5. Open your browser to http://localhost:5173

```
Next Steps
✅ Connect frontend to Supabase
✅ Display asset data in a table
✅ Complete form to add new assets
✅ Add form validation and error handling
✅ Implement column-based filtering (starting with status)
   🔲 - Styling the filters bar to match my table layout? (Next iteration)
   🔲 - Adding a loading spinner or "No results found" message? (Next iteration)
   🔲 - Creating a “Clear All Filters” button? (Next iteration)
✅ Add CSV import support (with Upsert mapping)
🔲 Add edit/update and delete functionality
🔲 Add authentication and secure access
🔲 Deploy MVP and test full workflow
📝 Notes
This project is being developed as a learning tool to understand full-stack development, database design, and frontend/backend integration.
Supabase is used to simplify backend setup while maintaining SQL control.
React is used to build a responsive, modern frontend with real-time data interaction.
CSV headers must match the table columns exactly for import.
The frontend is built using React with Vite for fast development and hot module reloading.
```
---

## 📝 Notes
- Developed as a learning tool for full-stack integration and database design.

- The Mapping Layer in useAssets.js allows for flexible CSV header naming, increasing user-friendliness for non-technical staff.
